So, the idea was very simple.
One you would store,
it does storage and processing combo, two in one.
All types of data are welcome.
High value, low value,
medium value, structured, unstructured, semi-structured.
I know sometimes you say that JSON
is not really unstructured because there is structured,
but it can have fields of like large text,
so it's semi-structured and so forth.
That was like the first thing,
all data is welcomed.
The second thing is that,
you don't do ETL.
You do ELT which is first actually at E L T. So,
the data is stored as is in its original formats.
Unlike ETL, unlikely in the data warehouse,
either in Inman architecture or Kimball's architecture that when you get the data,
you either like transform it into dimensional model or even take first into
one uniform and normalized format then put it in the dimensional model.
But at the end of the day in the warehouse,
you need it to know the format of the destination table before touching the source data.
Here, any old data with the original format,
we don't know it's binary, its text, its worth.
We put it as it is without transformation and we transform later one word processing,
and how do we transform later one word processing using
the idea of the schema on read that we just saw?
Features like parallelism and columnar storage
are provided actually by the idea that you have
a dataframe and in Spark or RDD
and these are actually distributed data storage out of the box.
This is like the vanilla data abstraction,
it's a distributed data frame, and also,
you have those like parquet which is columnar storage and the MPP plus parquet.
Here is something that is unparalleled for actually commodity hardware.
Finally, in Spark you have packages like MN Libin graph x,
and actually new things are coming like for NLP and so on.
That can make you do things that wouldn't typically be in a database.
I have to say that lots of the current databases are catching up.
So, many like or it can and Microsoft tend to.
I mean all the all the major vendors of databases are actually
incorporating machine learning features into their databases as well.